README.md, before:

# Install and Set Up Laravel with Docker Compose as a microservice

Setting up Laravel in the local environment with Docker using the LEMP stack that includes: Nginx, MySQL, PHP, and phpMyAdmin. or postgreesql and pgadmin as a microservice 

## How to Install and Run the Project

1. ```git clone``https://github.com/jahidrjs/laravel_docker_microservice.git`
2. ```cd src```
3. ```composer install```
3. Copy ```.env.example``` to ```.env```
4. ```docker-compose build```
5. ```docker compose up -d```
6. You can see the project on ```127.0.0.1:8080``` as nginx gateway port

## How to use MySQL as a database

1. Uncomment the MySQL configuration inside the ```docker-compose.yml``` including: ```db``` and ```phpMyAdmin```
2. Copy ```.env.example``` to ```.env```
3. Change ```DB_CONNECTION``` to ```mysql```
4. Change ```DB_PORT``` to ```3306```
5. Open the ```phpMyAdmin``` on ```127.0.0.1:3400```

## How to use PostgreSQL as a database

1. Uncomment the PostgreSQL configuration inside the ```docker-compose.yml``` including: ```db``` and ```pgamdin```
2. Copy ```.env.example``` to ```.env```
3. Change ```DB_CONNECTION``` to ```pgsql```
4. Change ```DB_PORT``` to ```5432```
5. Open the ```pgAdmin``` on ```127.0.0.1:5050```

## How to run Laravel Commands with Docker Compose

1. ```cd src```
2. ```docker-compose exec app php artisan {your command}``` or if you use destop docker then you can open container terminal and run code directly.



## Linkedin 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/jahid-al-mamun-9b02372b/

Commit message:

PHP based backend and frontend dev assignment make simple demo with provided api demo data and form validation and show historical data based on selected form and call another API for data table list show'

README.md, after:

# Install and Set Up Laravel with Docker Compose as a microservice with form submit validation and historical Data show based on symbol

Setting up Laravel in the local environment with Docker using the LEMP stack that includes: Nginx, MySQL, PHP, and phpMyAdmin as a microservice 

## How to Install and Run the Project

1. ```git clone``https://github.com/jahidrjs/xm-service-laravel-validator-chart.git```
### Must do it before build and run application because app is depend on composer
2. ```cd src```
3. ```composer install```
3. Copy ```.env.example``` to ```.env```
4. ```docker-compose build```
5. ```docker compose up -d```
6. You can see the project on ```127.0.0.1:8080``` as nginx gateway port

## How to use MySQL as a database

1. Uncomment the MySQL configuration inside the ```docker-compose.yml``` including: ```db``` and ```phpMyAdmin```
2. Copy ```.env.example``` to ```.env```
3. Change ```DB_CONNECTION``` to ```mysql```
4. Change ```DB_PORT``` to ```3306```
5. Open the ```phpMyAdmin``` on ```127.0.0.1:3400```


## How to run Laravel Commands with Docker Compose

1. ```cd src```
2. ```docker-compose exec xm-app php artisan {your command}``` or if you use destop docker then you can open container terminal and run code directly.

## for app test
```docker-compose exec xm-app php artisan test```

## Linkedin 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/jahid-al-mamun-9b02372b/
